# Hangman_game
Hangman is a paper and pencil guessing game for two or more players. One player thinks of a word, phrase or sentence and the other(s) tries to guess it by suggesting letters within a certain number of guesses.

# Overview
The word to guess is represented by a row of dashes, representing each letter of the word. In most variants, proper nouns, such as names, places, and brands, are not allowed.Slang words, sometimes referred to as informal or shortened words, are also not allowed. If the guessing player suggests a letter which occurs in the word, the other player writes it in all its correct positions. If the suggested letter does not occur in the word, the other player draws one element of a hanged man stick figure as a tally mark.
The player guessing the word may, at any time, attempt to guess the whole word. If the word is correct, the game is over and the guesser wins. Otherwise, the other player may choose to penalize the guesser by adding an element to the diagram. On the other hand, if the other player makes enough incorrect guesses to allow his opponent to complete the diagram, the game is also over, this time with the guesser losing. However, the guesser can also win by guessing all the letters that appear in the word, thereby completing the word, before the diagram is completed.

# How to play Hangman
1. Choose one person to be the "host." This is the person that invents the puzzle for the other person to solve. They will be tasked with choosing a word or phrase that "the players" will have to solve.
2. If you are the host, choose a secret word. The other players will need to guess your word letter by letter, so choose a word you think will be difficult to guess. Difficult words usually have uncommon letters, like "z," or "j," and only a few vowels.
3. Draw a blank line for each letter in the word. For example, if the executioner chooses the word "zipper," she/he would draw six blanks, one for each letter ( _ _ _ _ _ _ )
4. Start guessing letters if you are the player. Once the word has been chosen and the players know how many letters in the secret word, begin guessing which letters are in the word by asking the host. For example, you might begin by asking, "is there an 'e' in your word?"
5. Fill the letter in the blanks if the players guess correctly. Whenever the players guess a letter that is in the secret word, the host fills it into the blank where it occurs. For example, if the word is "zipper" and the players guess "e," then the host will fill in the 5th blank with an "e:" (_ _ _ _ e _).
6. Draw part of the "hangman" when the players guess wrong. Whenever the players guess a letter that is not in the secret word they get a strike that brings them closer to losing. To show this, the host draws a simple stick figure of a man being hung, adding a new part to the drawing with every wrong answer.
7. The players win when they guess the correct word. If the players get every letter of the word before the host finishes drawing then they win. At any point a player can try to guess the entire word instead of a single letter, but if they guess the wrong word then the host should treat it as if they guessed a wrong letter
8. Play online or on an app to practice by yourself. Thanks to it's simplicity, online hangman games are everywhere, and easy to find with a quick internet search for "online hangman." Many games use online dictionaries to choose words, allowing your to practice building your vocabulary while you play. You can even play games against opponents from all over the world with some apps.
